‘Remember your Grand Creator
in the days of your youth.’
That exhortation is very timely,
especially for our youth today.
They are surrounded by a world
that really ignores God.
Instead, they idolize people or things.
Some boldly deny the existence of God.
We have young people in school
who have science or biology teachers
who point out the wonders
of animal life, marine life, bird life.
But then they give credit
to a mythical, nameless “Mother Nature”
or evolution.
One Awake!  magazine
described how science writers
will write articles
in which they express amazement
at what they’re discovering.
And they use such words as “miraculous,”
“remarkable,” “ingenious,”
“extraordinary,” “perfect,” “a masterpiece,”
“a great mystery,” “unerring,”
“astonishing,”
“fantastic,” and “unbelievable.”
And then they say,
“Isn’t Mother Nature wonderful?”
Well, while our text
is directed to young ones,
it’s good to remind ourselves
to remember our Grand Creator.
The January 15, 2014,
Watchtower,  page 23, made this comment:
“Even though we may
have been serving Jehovah for many years,
“it is good for us to stop occasionally
“and think appreciatively
“about how grand our Creator is.
“Is not life awe-inspiring?
“The complexity of its design
“is beyond human understanding.
“Jehovah’s provisions are so rich in variety
“that we have
abundant possibilities for enjoying life.
“When we contemplate Jehovah’s creation,
“we renew our appreciation
for his love, wisdom, and power.”
Indeed.
And really, it should not be difficult for us
to continually remember
our Grand Creator, Jehovah.
For example,
perhaps in your room or in your house,
you have gifts on display
that friends have given you over the years.
I know my wife and I
have a cabinet just filled
with gifts and mementos.
And when we look at each one of these things,
we remember who gave it to us.
Well, similarly,
Jehovah’s creations are gifts to us.
And every time
we see one of these amazing creations,
we’re reminded of his greatness,
his majesty, how awesome he is,
yes, how grand he is.
The article series “Was It Designed?”
constantly amazes us
at Jehovah’s creative genius.
One young sister wrote:
“I love to read
the feature ‘Was It Designed?’
“It proves to me
that evolution cannot be true.
“It’s crazy to think that something
“as beautiful as a butterfly
or a hummingbird can come about by accident.”
And we say to that, “Amen.”
Our sister mentioned butterflies, and indeed,
these insects are among the most beautiful
of God’s creations.
Let’s take a closer look at two butterflies
out of the thousands of species
that Jehovah has created.
And the first is the monarch butterfly.
Now look at this delicate jewel.
No fashion expert ever designed
such a rich color combination
as these delicate orange wings,
etched in black,
with intricately designed borders.
But there’s more.
Now imagine: The monarch butterfly
has a brain that is only about the size
of the tip of a ballpoint pen.
And yet, each autumn
that butterfly has the ability
and skill to migrate
some 1,800 miles (nearly 3,000 km)
from Canada to a particular forest
in central Mexico.
They cross large lakes,
rivers, and mountains.
And even young butterflies
that have never made this flight before
arrive safely.
How do they do it?
Evidently, they use the sun
to help them migrate, that is, navigate.
But the sun shifts in the sky,
so it seems that Jehovah designed
its minute brain
with the ability to compensate
for the sun’s movement.
Well, what can the monarch butterfly
remind us about our Grand Creator?
Well, clearly this masterpiece
of color and design
tells us clearly—Jehovah loves beauty.
But there’s more.
Think about this:
If our Grand Creator
took such care
to give the monarch butterfly the capacity
to travel long distances
and safely arrive at its destination,
how much more is he interested
in guiding us humans in our long journey
through life to the new world!
Let’s take a look at another butterfly.
The Giant Blue Morpho.
Now look at the wings
of this blue morpho butterfly.
They seem so fragile, don’t they?
And it may make us wonder:
‘How could this butterfly weather
‘a rainstorm
‘if the moisture would stick to its wings
‘weighing it down, making it very difficult,
‘if not impossible, to fly?
‘And yet the wings stay dry.
Why?’
Although the wings
look to us (to the naked eye)
very smooth,
if you look at them through a microscope,
you’ll see that the surfaces
are covered with minute overlapping scales
that resemble tiles on the roof of a house.
And in addition, there are very tiny grooves
on the surface of these scales
that cause drops of water to roll off.
Engineers are trying to copy
the wings’ design
to make water-resistant coatings
for commercial use.
Now, aside from reminding us
of our Grand Creator’s marvelous wisdom,
what else could this remind us about him?
If Jehovah put that much thought
and detail into making the scales
on the wings of this beautiful butterfly,
should we ever wonder
that he cares about the details of our life?
Has he not also spiritually equipped us
to weather the figurative storms of life?
Yes.
Not only is he a God of wisdom,
but certainly, above all, a God of love.
Now, we’ve just examined two samples
of Jehovah’s wisdom, knowledge, and love.
His gifts are endless, aren’t they?
It would take us an eternity
to fully appreciate
the riches of God’s personality.
This is basically what Solomon said
at Ecclesiastes 3:11:
“He has made
everything beautiful in its time.
“He has even put eternity in their heart;
“yet mankind will never find out the work
that the true God
has made from start to finish.”
And David wrote at Psalm 143:5:
“I eagerly ponder over [or study]
the work of your hands.”
So like David, our faithful slave
has devoted a lot of research and space
in our printed and digital publications
to the wonders of creation,
such as in the series “Was It Designed?”
It’ll do us good to study these,
perhaps making it a project.
Let it fire our curiosity
and our sense of wonder
at Jehovah’s amazing gifts to us.
And as we do so,
we will remember our Grand Creator.
It will deepen our gratitude
and our appreciation for him
and our determination
to give him our very best
for as long as we live.